The US Department of Defense has awarded a multi-million dollar contract for the development of the updated capability, designed to be carried in a soldier’s backpack.

Dubbed POINT BLANK, the asset is designed to enable teams to engage a range of targets with precision and lethality without requiring additional support, and can be operated by a single soldier.
Israel Aerospace Industries (IA) claims that the asset can even be deployed within small tactical teams.
With a multi-million dollar valuation, the contract was awarded by the Irregular Warfare Technical Support Directorate (IWTSD) within the US Department of Defense for the rapid development of an additional version of the POINT BLANK system.
The first prototypes are scheduled for delivery in FY23.
Weighing in at under seven kilograms, the prime contractor has explained that the missile can fly at altitudes above 1,500 feet and up to 186 kilometres per hour.
The missile also has loitering capabilities, hovering in the air until it can determine the target’s exact nature and location before impact.
“POINT BLANK joins Israel Aerospace Industries’ family of missiles to provide ground-based tactical forces with more precise capabilities to undertake offensive operations especially against short-lived targets,” said Guy Bar Lev, executive vice president systems, missiles and space group at Israel Aerospace Industries.
“We wish to thank the IWTSD for its support and cooperation in the field of precision munitions, confirming, yet again, the importance of tactical missiles to the modern army.
“IAI continues to develop and improve a wide range of offensive systems which provide precision operational solutions, and stands firmly to support our US customers.”
IAI’s EROS-C3 observation satellite successfully entered orbit onboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 launch vehicle in late December, where IAI researchers began testing the satellite’s performance.
Equipped with a multi-spectral camera and emerging technologies that enable high-resolution images, IAI began testing the satellite following the launch.
According to the company, the tests include a series of pre-planned calibrations and trials to verify the EROS-C3’s performance ahead of the satellite undertaking full operations.
Boaz Levy, president and chief executive officer of IAI, explained that the company collaborates with a broad array of stakeholders to create a comprehensive space program.
“Today’s launch of the EROS-C3 satellite is a further expression of the advanced technological capabilities of Israel Aerospace Industries, the space house of the State of Israel,” he explained.
“Israel Aerospace Industries cooperates with government bodies, academic institutions, NGOs, and investors from both Israel and abroad, to advance technological achievements, scientific research, and the development of future space technologies.”
https://www.defenceconnect.com.au/land-amphibious/11271-iai-selected-by-us-dod-for-hand-launched-and-electro-optically-guided-missile-prototype