Leopard 2 and M1 Abrams third generation main battle tanks will face combat in Ukraine, after an announcement made by US President Joe Biden this week.

NATO allies are committed to campaign for military support for Ukraine as the Russo-Ukraine war progresses into its first anniversary in February, according to a statement released by US President Joe Biden on 25 January.
“The United States and Europe are fully united. This morning I had a long conversation with our NATO allies — German Chancellor Scholz, French President Macron, Prime Minister Sunak, and the Italian Prime Minister, Meloni — to continue our close coordination in our full support of Ukraine,” US President Biden said.
“I’m announcing that the United States will be sending 31 Abrams tanks to Ukraine, the equivalent of one Ukrainian battalion.
“Secretary Austin has recommended this step because it will enhance the Ukraine’s capacity to defend its territory and achieve its strategic objectives.
“The Abrams tanks are the most capable tanks in the world. They’re also extremely complex to operate and maintain, so we’re also giving Ukraine the parts and equipment necessary to effectively sustain these tanks on the battlefield.”
President Biden also confirmed Germany will be sending Leopard 2 main battle tanks, and the US will begin training Ukrainian troops in sustainment, logistics and maintenance.
“I’m grateful to Chancellor Scholz for providing German Leopard 2 tanks and will lead an effort to organise the European contribution of two tank battalions for Ukraine,” he said.
“I want to thank the Chancellor for his leadership and his steadfast commitment to our collective efforts to support Ukraine.
“The United Kingdom recently announced that it is donating Challenger 2 tanks to Ukraine. France is contributing AMX-10s, armoured fighting vehicles.”
NATO countries have supplied more than 3,000 armoured vehicles, more than 800 artillery systems, more than 2 million rounds of artillery ammunition and more than 50 advanced multi-launch rocket systems, anti-ship and air defense systems.
“As I told President Zelenskyy when he was here in December, ‘We’re with you for as long as it takes, Mr President’,” US President Biden said.
“Ukrainians are fighting an age-old battle against aggression and domination. It’s a battle Americans have fought proudly time and again, and it’s a battle we’re going to make sure the Ukrainians are well equipped to fight as well.
“This is about freedom. Freedom for Ukraine, freedom everywhere. It’s about the kind of world we want to live in and the world we want to leave our children.”
https://www.defenceconnect.com.au/land-amphibious/11294-leopard-and-abrams-tanks-confirmed-for-ukraine-2