More than 70 Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel are flying out to provide basic infantry training and tactics to Ukrainian recruits.

The ADF contingent, named Operation Kudu, will depart Darwin this week to join partner nations in the United Kingdom.
ADF troops will be supplying basic infantry tactics for urban and wooded environments for use to defend Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war, however, the ADF personnel will not enter the country during the program.
Minister for Defence Personnel Matt Keogh said Australia has an ongoing commitment to stand with the people of Ukraine, and continue its support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.
“Our people are our greatest defence capability, that’s why it’s so important that our soldiers, alongside a number of partner nations, will provide essential skills to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, supporting Ukraine to end the conflict on its own terms,” he said.
“We are proud to support the brave people of Ukraine and their Armed Forces.”


Australia has already provided Ukraine with approximately $655 million in support, including $475 million in military assistance.
M113 armoured personnel carriers, Bushmaster protected mobility vehicles, medical supplies and radiation monitoring equipment have also been sent.
“The Australian government is committed to standing with Ukraine, in response to Russia’s clear violation of the rules-based order,” said Deputy Prime Minister Richard Marles.
“Operation Kudu builds on Australia’s military support for Ukraine, with the previously gifted Australian-produced Bushmaster protected mobility vehicles proving their worth as highly valuable military vehicles.”
The training is part of the larger Operation Interflex run by the United Kingdom. Ukrainian troops will be trained in England during a five-week course of basic infantry soldiering before returning to the conflict.
The operation has already trained 7,400 recruits and is stated to potentially train up to 10,000 soldiers every 120 days. A further 60 Armed Forces of Ukraine personnel have already completed the British Army’s Section Leader course to return as key squad and troop leaders.
https://www.defenceconnect.com.au/land-amphibious/11250-adf-soldiers-fly-out-to-train-ukrainian-recruits