Quickstep’s Aerostructures business has secured an order for F-35 vertical tail components from Marand Precision Engineering, scheduled for delivery between FY 24 and FY25.

Valued at $11.3 million, the contract is the latest purchase order between the two longstanding partners and will be delivered from the company’s Bankstown facility.
Mark Burgess, managing director and chief executive officer of Quickstep said that the company was “proud” to support the international program.
“Following our multi-year award announcement on 25 August 2022, this additional order means our F-35 vertical tail production is also underpinned by firm contracts through FY25,” he said.
“It is a great testament to the quality and delivery performance of our Aerostructures business, especially in a challenging operating environment, that we have secured this follow-on work.
“We are proud to support this important international program and continue to explore opportunities for additional volume.”
In November, Quickstep was contracted by Northrop Grumman to support the global defence contractor’s development of the centre fuselage for all three F-35 variants.
Quickstep was first integrated into Northrop Grumman’s global supply chain in 2012.
“Northrop Grumman has an unwavering commitment to help grow Australia’s sovereign defence industry,” said Christine Zeitz, general manager, Northrop Grumman Asia-Pacific.
“Quickstep Holdings is a long-time member of our global supply chain, providing critical capability into one of the Australian Defence Force’s most important programs, and we look forward to continuing our collaboration over the coming years.”
It is expected that work will be undertaken in Sydney.
“We are delighted to have secured this multi-year buy with Northrop Grumman,” said Josh Scanlon, business leader, Aerostructures, Quickstep Holdings Limited.
“These firm orders secure our Northrop Grumman F‑35 order book through 2025 and are a great example of the value Australian industry delivers to the world’s largest defence aerospace program.”
https://www.defenceconnect.com.au/strike-air-combat/11263-quickstep-secures-f-35-vertical-tail-component-order